IGNITE-15189 Documentation: Calcite-based SQL engine (#10002)
apache/ignite: docs/_docs/SQL/sql-introduction.adoc

Internally, SQL tables have the same data structure as link:data-modeling/data-modeling#key-value-cache-vs-sql-table[key-value caches]. It means that you can change partition distribution of your data and leverage link:data-modeling/affinity-collocation[affinity colocation techniques] for better performance.

> Ignite's default SQL engine uses H2 Database to parse and optimize queries and generate execution plans, but also the Apache Calcite-based SQL engine can be enabled to execute queries (experimental feature, see link:SQL/sql-calcite[Calcite-based SQL engine]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ignite's default SQL engine uses H2 Database to parse and optimize queries and generate execution plans, while the Apache Calcite-based SQL engine enables you to execute queries.

WARNING: Apache Calcite-based SQL engine is an experimental feature. For more information, see the link:SQL/sql-calcite[Calcite-based SQL engine, window=_blank] section.
```

Author: "Optimize queries and generate execution plans" are phases of "execute queries", these phases can be run using H2 or using Calcite, so Calcite-based engine - it's just an alternative, but not a add-on to do some additional work. I think your suggestion is not quite correct.
